Clerk SSO IDP - First Draft (#38)
clerkinc/clerk-docs: src/pages/advance/clerk-idp.mdx

import { Callout } from "nextra-theme-docs";
import { Images } from "@/components/Images";

> # Use Clerk as an SSO Identity Provider 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Use Clerk as an OAuth 2.0 Identity Provider 
```

> Learn how to use Clerk as an Identity provider to facilitate Single Sign-On (SSO) with other applications that support the OAuth2 protocol. 

Reviewer: 🙃 Officially, it's `OAuth 2.0` and not `OAuth2`

<Images
  width={496}
  height={564}
  src="/images/advance/clerk-idp-flow.svg"
  alt="Clerk SSO IDP Flow"
/>

> ## Step 1: Retrieve SSO Provider Callback URL

Reviewer: I left a note about this in the slack thread, but I think the term `SSO provider` is misused here. Maybe we can align on a phrase in slack.

Author: You're right, i think Client probably makes the most sense in the OAuth context as well. So i'll change that.

From your SSO provider, retrieve the **Callback URL**. This is where your users will be redirected to after a successful authentication and is required to successfully create your OAuth application in the next step.

## Step 2: Create an OAuth Application

Next, you need to create an OAuth Application in Clerk via the [Backend API](https://clerk.com/docs/reference/backend-api/tag/OAuth-Applications).

```jsx copy filename="POST /v1/oauth_applications"

> $ curl 

Reviewer 2: let’s remove the $ and set the code type to sh or bash

 -X POST https://api.clerk.com/v1/oauth_applications \
 -H "Authorization: Bearer <CLERK_SECRET_KEY>"  \
 -H "Content-Type: application/json" \

>  -D {"callback_url":"https://oauth-client.com/oauth2/callback", "name": "oauth_app_1"}

Reviewer: It might be worth it to point out that the callback URL needs to be retrieved from the application/OAuth client (Circle.so for example), and name can be anything you want to help identify which OAuth application this is.

```

Clerk creates an OAuth application and returns it's configurations back to you.

```json copy filename="RESPONSE"
{
    "object":"oauth_application",
    "id":"oa_2O4BCh3zUONvWlZHtBXv6s6tm7u",
    "instance_id":"ins_2O4Ak02T4fDmKKv6tK5h0WJ8ou8",
    "name":"oauth_app_1",
    "client_id":"d9g4CT4WYiCBm7EU",
    "client_secret":"VVgbT7i6sPo7sTljq2zj12fjmg0jPL5k",

>     "scopes":"profile email",

Reviewer: Should we specify that we currently only support `profile` and `email` scopes?

Reviewer: nevermind, I see it in the last section

    "callback_url":"https://oauth-client.com/oauth2/callback",
    "authorize_url":"https://clerk.your-domain.com/oauth/authorize",
    "token_fetch_url":"https://clerk.your-domain.com/oauth/token",
    "user_info_url":"https://clerk.your-domain.com/oauth/userinfo",
    "created_at":1680809847940,
    "updated_at":1680810135145
}
```

<Callout type="warning" emoji="ℹ️">

>   The client secret will only be displayed once in plaintext, please make sure to copy it otherwise you will have to generate a new one.

Reviewer 2: change emoji to ⚠️

</Callout>

## Step 3: Configure your SSO Provider

Now that you have setup an OAuth application in Clerk, you will need to configure these settings in your SSO provider.

* **Client ID**: Public identifier of your application
* **Client Secret**: Confidential secret used to authenticate your OAuth application

> * **Authorization URL**: Used by the SSO provider to authorization your OAuth application

Reviewer: In particular, the authorization url is how the application requests authorization from the user. A better working may be `Used by the application/OAuth client (term is TBD here) to request authorization from your user.

import { Callout } from "nextra-theme-docs";
import { Images } from "@/components/Images";

# Use Clerk as an Identity Provider 

Learn how to use Clerk to facilitate Single Sign-On (SSO) with other clients that support the OAuth 2.0 protocol. 

&nbsp;  

<Images
  width={2279}
  height={1135}
  src="/images/advance/clerk-idp-flow-2.svg"
  alt="Clerk IDP Flow"
/>

> ## Step 1: Retrieve Callback URL from Client

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Step 1: Retrieve Callback URL from the client application
```

> From the client that you want to configure, retrieve the **Callback URL**. This is where your users will be redirected to after a successful authentication and is required to successfully create your OAuth application in the next step.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Retrieve the **Callback URL** for the client application you want to configure. This is where your users will be redirected to after a successful authentication and is required to successfully create your OAuth application in the next step.
```

Reviewer 3: I'd also recommend doing a quick pass across popular SaaS that we use and offer OAuth2 SSO as well as competitor OAuth2 SSO products (Auth0, Ory Hydra, etc...) to check the naming and inform our users that the name might differ. 
Variations may include terms such as callback url, redirect url, authorize url, etc...
